.TH SENTINEL-CALIBRATION 1 "2026-03-08" "SENTINEL 0.1.0" "SENTINEL Manual"
.SH NAME
sentinel-calibration \- run the calibration battery for SENTINEL agents
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python3 run_calibration.py
.I config
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Runs the standardized calibration battery against all agents defined in the
experiment config. The battery consists of 21 prompts across 7 categories,
executed N times per agent to establish behavioral baselines.
.PP
Calibration baselines are used by probes and metrics to measure drift.
Each agent's calibration is stored with a unique ID and linked to the
agent record. Running calibration before experiments is recommended but
not required \(em metrics and probes degrade gracefully without baselines.
.PP
Categories: persona_adherence, semantic_consistency, reasoning_patterns,
sentiment_range, instruction_compliance, vocabulary_profile,
ethical_reasoning.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I config
Path to experiment configuration JSON file defining the agents to calibrate.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-runs " N"
Number of calibration runs per agent. Default: 3. Multiple runs enable
test-retest reliability validation. More runs = better baselines but
longer execution time.
.TP
.BI \-\-db " PATH"
Path to SQLite database. Default:
.IR experiments/sentinel.db .
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-level " LEVEL"
Logging level. Default: INFO.
.SH EXAMPLES
Standard 3-run calibration:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_calibration.py config/three_agent_mesh.json
.RE
.PP
Quick single-run calibration:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_calibration.py config/three_agent_mesh.json \-\-runs 1
.RE
.PP
5-run calibration for higher reliability:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_calibration.py config/three_agent_mesh.json \-\-runs 5
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sentinel-experiment (1),
.BR sentinel-metrics (1)
