.TH SENTINEL-EXPERIMENT 1 "2026-03-08" "SENTINEL 0.1.0" "SENTINEL Manual"
.SH NAME
sentinel-experiment \- run a SENTINEL multi-agent interaction experiment
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python3 run_experiment.py
.I config
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Runs a multi-agent experiment with configurable topology, timing, and
optional real-time probe monitoring. Agents interact in round-robin order
within the configured topology (currently full_mesh). Each agent sees all
public messages from other agents and generates responses via Ollama.
.PP
All messages, prompts, timings, and model digests are logged to SQLite for
post-hoc analysis. Experiments can be stopped gracefully with Ctrl+C
(SIGINT) and will complete the current turn before exiting.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I config
Path to experiment configuration JSON file. See
.BR sentinel-config (5)
for format details.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-turns " N"
Maximum number of interaction turns. Overrides the config file value.
When reached, the experiment stops gracefully.
.TP
.BI \-\-delay " SECONDS"
Delay in seconds between agent turns. Overrides config
.IR cycle_delay_s .
Default: value from config (typically 10-30s).
.TP
.BI \-\-probe " MODE"
Enable real-time probe monitoring. Modes:
.RS
.TP
.B shadow
Probes run as separate API calls. Responses are logged but never enter the
conversation history. No experiment contamination. This is the recommended
default.
.TP
.B injected
Probes are sent as visible messages in the conversation. The agent's
response becomes part of the interaction history. This deliberately alters
the experiment and must be used as a controlled variable.
.TP
.B both
Runs shadow AND injected probes at the same turn. Enables direct comparison
of whether mid-conversation persona reminders affect drift differently than
passive observation.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-probe\-interval " N"
Run probes every N turns per agent. Default: 20. For hybrid/triggered
strategies, this sets the scheduled interval; triggered probes may fire
more frequently.
.TP
.BI \-\-probe\-strategy " STRATEGY"
Probe trigger strategy:
.RS
.TP
.B scheduled
Probes fire at fixed intervals (every N turns). Default.
.TP
.B triggered
Probes fire only when lightweight drift metrics cross thresholds.
Vocabulary drift (JSD) and sentiment shift are computed after every turn
using stdlib only \(em no Ollama call. When a threshold is crossed, the
expensive shadow/injected probe fires.
.TP
.B hybrid
Scheduled probes at the configured interval plus triggered probes on
threshold crossings. Provides guaranteed baseline coverage with
high-resolution data when drift is actively happening.
.RE
.TP
.BI \-\-vocab\-threshold " FLOAT"
Vocabulary Jensen-Shannon divergence threshold for triggered probes.
Range [0, 1]. Default: 0.15.
.TP
.BI \-\-sentiment\-threshold " FLOAT"
Sentiment delta threshold for triggered probes. Absolute change from
baseline. Default: 0.3.
.TP
.BI \-\-db " PATH"
Path to SQLite database file. Default:
.IR experiments/sentinel.db .
Created automatically if it does not exist.
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-level " LEVEL"
Python logging level. Default: INFO. Use DEBUG for verbose output
including probe details.
.SH EXAMPLES
Run a basic experiment:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_experiment.py config/three_agent_mesh.json
.RE
.PP
Run 100 turns with 5-second delay:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_experiment.py config/three_agent_mesh.json \\
    \-\-max-turns 100 \-\-delay 5
.RE
.PP
Run with hybrid probes (scheduled every 20 turns + triggered on drift):
.PP
.RS
python3 run_experiment.py config/three_agent_mesh.json \\
    \-\-probe shadow \-\-probe-strategy hybrid \\
    \-\-probe-interval 20 \-\-max-turns 200
.RE
.PP
Run with triggered-only probes and custom thresholds:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_experiment.py config/three_agent_mesh.json \\
    \-\-probe shadow \-\-probe-strategy triggered \\
    \-\-vocab-threshold 0.12 \-\-sentiment-threshold 0.25 \\
    \-\-max-turns 200 \-\-delay 5
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Experiment completed successfully or stopped gracefully via Ctrl+C.
.TP
.B 1
Error: config file not found, Ollama not running, or invalid arguments.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I experiments/sentinel.db
Default SQLite database. Contains experiments, agents, messages, probes,
calibrations, and metrics tables.
.TP
.I config/*.json
Experiment configuration files.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sentinel-calibration (1),
.BR sentinel-metrics (1),
.BR sentinel-paired (1),
.BR sentinel-fork (1),
.BR sentinel-matrix (1)
