.TH SENTINEL-METRICS 1 "2026-03-08" "SENTINEL 0.1.0" "SENTINEL Manual"
.SH NAME
sentinel-metrics \- compute drift metrics for completed SENTINEL experiments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python3 run_metrics.py
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Runs the offline metrics pipeline on a completed experiment. Computes four
E-ASI (Extended Agent Stability Index) dimensions per agent:
.PP
.RS
.TP
.B Vocabulary drift
Jensen-Shannon divergence of token distributions vs calibration baseline.
Stdlib-only, no Ollama call.
.TP
.B Sentiment trajectory
Lexicon-based sentiment scoring (positive/negative word counts). Tracks
shift from calibration baseline over time.
.TP
.B Semantic coherence
Cosine similarity of Ollama embeddings between agent messages and the
agent's system prompt. Measures how well the agent stays on-topic.
Requires Ollama.
.TP
.B Persona adherence
LLM-as-judge scoring (1-10) where the model evaluates whether the agent's
responses match its assigned persona. Requires Ollama.
.RE
.PP
With
.BR \-\-fast ,
only vocabulary drift and sentiment are computed (no Ollama calls). Useful
for quick iteration or when the GPU is busy.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-e " ID" "\fR,\fP \-\-experiment\-id" " ID"
Experiment ID or prefix. Uses prefix matching (e.g., "3f9d" matches
"3f9dd450-..."). If omitted, uses the most recent completed experiment.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list
List all experiments in the database with their status and turn counts.
Does not compute metrics.
.TP
.B \-\-fast
Skip Ollama-based metrics (semantic coherence and persona adherence).
Only computes vocabulary drift and sentiment trajectory.
.TP
.BI \-w " N" "\fR,\fP \-\-window\-size" " N"
Analysis window size for trend computation. Default: 10.
.TP
.BI \-\-db " PATH"
Database path. Default:
.IR experiments/sentinel.db .
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-level " LEVEL"
Logging level. Default: INFO.
.SH EXAMPLES
Compute metrics for most recent experiment:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_metrics.py
.RE
.PP
Fast metrics (vocab + sentiment only):
.PP
.RS
python3 run_metrics.py \-\-fast
.RE
.PP
Metrics for a specific experiment:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_metrics.py \-e 3f9dd450
.RE
.PP
List all experiments:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_metrics.py \-\-list
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sentinel-experiment (1),
.BR sentinel-calibration (1),
.BR sentinel-paired (1)
