.TH SENTINEL-DIFF 1 "2026-03-08" "SENTINEL 0.1.0" "SENTINEL Manual"
.SH NAME
sentinel-diff \- compare two SENTINEL experiments side by side
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python3 run_diff.py
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Compares two experiments across all metrics dimensions, probe results,
and agent-level statistics. Agents are paired by name across experiments
and each metric dimension is compared with delta calculations.
.PP
Supports several comparison modes:
.RS
.TP
.B Manual
Specify two experiment IDs explicitly with \-a and \-b.
.TP
.B Fork parent
Automatically compares the most recent experiment against its fork parent.
.TP
.B Paired
Automatically finds and compares an experimental run against its
paired control arm.
.RE
.PP
Output includes per-agent metric series comparison, trend deltas,
probe drift score comparison, message statistics, and an overall
summary showing which experiment drifted more.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-a " ID" "\fR,\fP \-\-experiment\-a" " ID"
First experiment ID or prefix (the baseline).
.TP
.BI \-b " ID" "\fR,\fP \-\-experiment\-b" " ID"
Second experiment ID or prefix (the comparison).
.TP
.B \-\-fork\-parent
Auto-detect mode: diff the most recent experiment against its fork parent.
.TP
.B \-\-paired
Auto-detect mode: diff the most recent experimental run against its
paired control arm.
.TP
.BI \-\-match\-by " METHOD"
How to pair agents across experiments: "name" (default) or "position".
Use "name" for forks and paired runs. Use "position" when agent names
differ between experiments.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list
List all experiments with IDs, status, turn counts, and fork info.
.TP
.BI \-\-db " PATH"
Database path. Default:
.IR experiments/sentinel.db .
.SH EXAMPLES
Diff two experiments by ID:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_diff.py \-a 3f9dd450 \-b c6793fd1
.RE
.PP
Diff a fork against its parent:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_diff.py \-\-fork-parent
.RE
.PP
Diff experimental vs control arms:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_diff.py \-\-paired
.RE
.PP
List experiments to find IDs:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_diff.py \-\-list
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sentinel-experiment (1),
.BR sentinel-fork (1),
.BR sentinel-paired (1),
.BR sentinel-metrics (1),
.BR sentinel-monitor (1)
