.TH SENTINEL-PAIRED 1 "2026-03-08" "SENTINEL 0.1.0" "SENTINEL Manual"
.SH NAME
sentinel-paired \- run a paired experiment with experimental and control arms
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python3 run_paired.py
.I config
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Runs two experiments back-to-back using the same agent configurations:
.PP
.RS
.TP
.B Experimental arm
Normal multi-agent interaction where agents see and respond to each other's
messages (full mesh topology).
.TP
.B Control arm
Same agents respond to the same fixed prompts in isolation. No shared
context, no inter-agent interaction. 20 standardized prompts covering
technology governance topics.
.RE
.PP
After both arms complete, metrics are computed for each and a side-by-side
comparison is printed. This isolates multi-agent interaction effects from
single-agent context drift. Any drift observed in the experimental arm
but NOT in the control arm is attributable to the multi-agent interaction.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I config
Path to experiment configuration JSON.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-turns " N"
Max turns for each arm. Default: 30.
.TP
.BI \-\-delay " SECONDS"
Delay between turns. Default: 5.0.
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-metrics
Skip metrics computation after experiments complete.
.TP
.B \-\-fast\-metrics
Compute only stdlib-based metrics (vocab + sentiment). Skips Ollama-based
semantic coherence and persona adherence.
.TP
.BI \-w " N" "\fR,\fP \-\-window\-size" " N"
Metrics window size. Default: 10.
.TP
.BI \-\-db " PATH"
Database path. Default:
.IR experiments/sentinel.db .
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-level " LEVEL"
Logging level. Default: INFO.
.SH EXAMPLES
Standard paired experiment (30 turns each arm):
.PP
.RS
python3 run_paired.py config/three_agent_mesh.json
.RE
.PP
Longer paired experiment with fast metrics:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_paired.py config/three_agent_mesh.json \\
    \-\-max-turns 100 \-\-delay 5 \-\-fast-metrics
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sentinel-experiment (1),
.BR sentinel-metrics (1)
