.TH SENTINEL-SERVICES 1 "2026-03-10" "SENTINEL" "SENTINEL Manual"
.SH NAME
sentinel-services \- audit and manage system services for model inference
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B check_services.sh
.RB [ \-\-report | \-\-stop | \-\-disable | \-\-enable | \-\-init ]
.RB [ \-\-keep
.IR SVC[,SVC] ]
.RB [ \-\-min\-mb
.IR MB ]
.RB [ \-\-quiet ]
.RB [ \-\-yes ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Audits running system services and identifies those consuming memory
that could be reclaimed for model inference. All behavior is driven
by user-editable configuration files \(em the script will not stop
any services without explicit configuration.
.PP
Integrated into SENTINEL pre-flight checks: experiment scripts
automatically call this before loading large models (e.g., llama3
at ~4.2 GB VRAM on an 8 GB unified-memory Jetson).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-report
Show a table of stoppable services and reclaimable memory (default).
.TP
.B \-\-stop
Stop services listed in services.conf (current session only).
They will restart on next boot.
.TP
.B \-\-disable
Stop services AND disable them from starting on boot.
Reverse with
.BR \-\-enable .
.TP
.B \-\-enable
Re-enable and start all previously disabled managed services.
.TP
.B \-\-init
Generate default configuration files in ~/.config/sentinel/.
Will not overwrite existing files.
.TP
.BI \-\-keep " SVC[,SVC,...]"
Comma-separated list of services to exclude. Additive with
keep-services.conf entries. Service names can omit .service suffix.
.TP
.BI \-\-min\-mb " MB"
Only report services using at least
.I MB
megabytes of RSS (default: 1).
.TP
.B \-\-quiet
Machine-readable output. For \-\-report, prints only the total
reclaimable MB.
.TP
.B \-\-yes
Skip confirmation prompts for \-\-stop and \-\-disable.
.SH CONFIGURATION
All service management is driven by two config files. Run
.B check_services.sh \-\-init
to generate them with documented defaults.
.SS services.conf
Lists services that SENTINEL may stop to free memory.
Only uncommented entries are active. The script refuses to
stop or disable anything if this file does not exist.
.PP
.RS
.nf
# Format: service_name  # optional description
docker         # Docker container runtime
containerd     # Container runtime (Docker dependency)
bluetooth      # Bluetooth support
# smbd         # Samba \(em commented out = not managed
.fi
.RE
.SS keep-services.conf
Lists services to NEVER stop, even if they appear in
services.conf. Use this to protect services you need.
.PP
.RS
.nf
# Keep Samba for LAN file access
smbd
nmbd
.fi
.RE
.PP
The
.B \-\-keep
flag adds to this list for a single invocation.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SENTINEL_CONF_DIR
Override the config directory (default: ~/.config/sentinel/).
.SH INTEGRATION
The script can be sourced by other SENTINEL scripts:
.PP
.RS
.nf
source ./check_services.sh \-\-source\-only
preflight_memory_check 4200 || stop_services
.fi
.RE
.PP
.B recover_ollama.sh
automatically calls
.B free_memory_for_model
as Level 0 of its recovery sequence, before attempting model loads.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/sentinel/services.conf
Services to manage (stop/disable candidates).
.TP
.I ~/.config/sentinel/keep-services.conf
Services to never stop (exclusion list).
.TP
.I check_services.sh
Main service auditor script.
.TP
.I recover_ollama.sh
Ollama recovery framework (sources check_services.sh).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sentinel-experiment (1),
.BR sentinel-calibration (1),
.BR systemctl (1)
