.TH SENTINEL-MONITOR 1 "2026-03-08" "SENTINEL 0.1.0" "SENTINEL Manual"
.SH NAME
sentinel-monitor \- live terminal dashboard for running SENTINEL experiments
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python3 run_monitor.py
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Displays a curses-based terminal dashboard that auto-refreshes, showing
real-time metrics for a running or completed experiment. Works over SSH
on headless systems. Uses only stdlib (no external dependencies).
.PP
The dashboard shows per-agent:
.RS
.TP
.B Throughput
Message count, turn number, inference timing, token rates.
.TP
.B Drift metrics
Vocabulary drift (Jensen-Shannon divergence) and sentiment delta,
computed live from message data with no Ollama calls.
.TP
.B Probe results
Probe count, last probe turn and drift score, trigger type breakdown.
.TP
.B Governance status
Color-coded GREEN/YELLOW/RED based on drift thresholds.
.RE
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-e " ID" "\fR,\fP \-\-experiment\-id" " ID"
Experiment ID or prefix. If omitted, monitors the most recent experiment.
.TP
.BI \-\-refresh " SECONDS"
Dashboard refresh interval. Default: 3 seconds.
.TP
.BI \-\-db " PATH"
Database path. Default:
.IR experiments/sentinel.db .
.SH KEYBOARD CONTROLS
.TP
.B q
Quit the monitor.
.TP
.B +
Decrease refresh interval (faster updates, minimum 1s).
.TP
.B \-
Increase refresh interval (slower updates, maximum 30s).
.SH EXAMPLES
Monitor the most recent experiment:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_monitor.py
.RE
.PP
Monitor a specific experiment with fast refresh:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_monitor.py \-e 3f9dd450 \-\-refresh 1
.RE
.PP
Run experiment in one terminal, monitor in another:
.PP
.RS
.nf
# Terminal 1:
python3 run_experiment.py config/three_agent_mesh.json \\
    \-\-max-turns 100 \-\-delay 5 \-\-probe shadow

# Terminal 2:
python3 run_monitor.py
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sentinel-experiment (1),
.BR sentinel-diff (1),
.BR sentinel-metrics (1)
