.TH SENTINEL-MATRIX 1 "2026-03-08" "SENTINEL 0.1.0" "SENTINEL Manual"
.SH NAME
sentinel-matrix \- run experiments across multiple model configurations
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B python3 run_matrix.py
.I config
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Runs the same experiment configuration across multiple model combinations.
Three matrix modes control how models are assigned to agents:
.PP
.RS
.TP
.B homogeneous
All agents use the same model. One experiment per available model.
E.g., 3 models = 3 experiments.
.TP
.B asymmetric
One agent uses a different model from the rest. Tests whether a single
different model changes group dynamics. E.g., 3 agents x 2 models =
6 experiments.
.TP
.B mixed
Full combinatorial assignment of models to agents. Explores all possible
heterogeneous configurations. E.g., 3 agents x 2 models = 8 experiments.
.RE
.PP
After each experiment, metrics are computed automatically (unless skipped).
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I config
Path to base experiment config JSON. Agent definitions are used as
templates; the model field is overridden by the matrix.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-mode " MODE"
Matrix mode: homogeneous, asymmetric, or mixed. Default: homogeneous.
.TP
.BI \-\-models " LIST"
Comma-separated list of model names. Default: all models available in
Ollama.
.TP
.BI \-\-max\-turns " N"
Max turns per experiment.
.TP
.BI \-\-delay " SECONDS"
Delay between turns.
.TP
.B \-\-preview
Show the matrix of planned experiments without running them.
.TP
.B \-\-skip\-metrics
Skip metrics computation after each experiment.
.TP
.BI \-\-db " PATH"
Database path. Default:
.IR experiments/sentinel.db .
.TP
.BI \-\-log\-level " LEVEL"
Logging level. Default: INFO.
.SH EXAMPLES
Preview homogeneous matrix:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_matrix.py config/three_agent_mesh.json \-\-preview
.RE
.PP
Run homogeneous experiments across all models:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_matrix.py config/three_agent_mesh.json \-\-max-turns 50
.RE
.PP
Run asymmetric experiments with specific models:
.PP
.RS
python3 run_matrix.py config/three_agent_mesh.json \\
    \-\-mode asymmetric \-\-models gemma2:2b,llama3:latest \\
    \-\-max-turns 50
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sentinel-experiment (1),
.BR sentinel-models (1)
